480 super more like 480 wow super paint
job in 4k gaming we found next to no
difference across our entire Suite of
games between our two top end cards in
fact our super card performed a bit
worse in cyber Punk compared to our nons
super despite having more cores and
higher onp paper clock speeds now that
doesn't mean that the super is a worse
card overall we just released a video
demonstrating that modern processors can
have measurable difference from one to
the next all it means is power limits
are a bit and this whole launch
Shenanigans could have been an email so
rather than waste your time trickling
out LTT review videos every couple of
weeks with o one more line on the graph
we combined everything into one super
video between the price cuts and the new
cards though the GPU Market has
officially been shaken up a lot here do4
frame the 4080 super presents virtually
the the same value as the Beloved 3080
at its original MSRP and while the other
super refresh cards don't get lower
prices they're at least more Winter
Soldier super than Nick Fury super
finally the 470 gets a price cut down to
$550 which makes it actually still kind
of a bad value uh we're not going to
spend too much time on 1080p gaming
because even the weakest card in this
kind of price tier delivers an excellent
1080p Ultra experience it is impressive
to see the 3080 sinking so low on our
charts though and the 4070 super is
really impressive beating out even the
3090 despite retailing for less than the
historically low pricing on that card if
you're an Esports player the good news
is any card on this chart will do you
well but the bad news is the word super
can mean basically anything from a
sizable performance increase
to me so what exactly did they change
with these cards let's go through it
after this message from our sponsor
build Redux hey do you like gaming the
folks over at build Redux do as well and
their mission is to help you build the
gaming rig of your dreams Pick Your
Parts and let them take care of the rest
check out build Redux at the link below
to learn more the 470 super uses the
same 8104 silicon that's found on its
nons super and TI cousins man these
names a but it comes with 20% increases
in its functional units or Fus for short
just about across the board and it got
an especially big bump in level two
cache it however got no increase to its
memory interface width or its 12 GB of
vram a move that seems entirely designed
to ensure that this otherwise actually
pretty solid value card won't last for
the rest of this generation of console
games many of which already perform best
with 16 gigs of vram or more
so if that's a concern you'll have to
look to the 470 TI super it now shares
the same 8103 silicon as the 480 family
but it's clear that this move is less
about providing more value and more
about Nvidia offloading some 8103 chips
that weren't up to Snuff as for the 480
super the modest increase in Fus seems
to offer a small benefit sometimes but
other times it's clear that nvidia's
power limit for this card is doing
exactly what it intended to do limit its
power you'll see what I mean at 1440p
the 470 TI super is another major
disappointment here despite the shift to
the bigger die we don't really see a
major increase in performance at least
not like we saw on the 470 super and
even at its new lower price the 4080
super doesn't seem to offer a great
value proposition over amd's 7900 XT or
nvidia's own 47 ETI super which now
retail for 750 and $800 respectively it
offers only a singled digigit
performance uplift for what are in both
cases double- digigit price pumps a
couple of bright spots for NVIDIA though
are they took the lead in f123 a game
series that has heavily favored AMD in
the past and the 4070 super just kind of
in general that is an offer that is kind
of hard to refuse at least in the
context of nvidia's other 40 series
cards say it with me guys this is the
card Nvidia should have released a year
year ago looking at games like cyberpunk
the Step Up from the nons super is
pretty darn big and yeah it's $100 more
than the 7800 XT but the 4070 super
outperforms it consistently by about 5%
and is compatible with Nvidia Fancy
Pants AI features like their new
automatic SDR to HDR video playback Tom
Foolery and dlss with frame gen we're
going to get to frame gen in a bit but
first let's move on to 4K raster gaming
in Dota 2 at 4K every single super GPU
will be able to produce as many frames
as you can possibly output with display
port 1.4a amd's dp2 clad gpus on the
other hand may end up being the go-to
for high refresh rate 4K e athletes even
if it comes at the cost of some
performance in other games the 480 super
pulls pretty far ahead of the 7900 XT in
Red Dead Redemption 2 and atomic heart
as for the 470 TI super it has fully
caught up to the 7900 XT and extends its
lead over the 470 super to about 20% a
point where its $800 price tag could
almost be
justifiable and the 470 super begins
falling behind the 3090 it appears to be
being held back by that 12 gigs of video
memory that we complained about before
if you were hoping that this refresh
then would push the prospect of 4K Ultra
gaming to a lower price bracket I'm
sorry but that just isn't the case and
it appears to be by Design so with
nvidia's cards having names that are too
long and traditional raster gaming
performance that is at best competitive
with AMD the question becomes are
nvidia's other features worth the price
premium let's take a quick detour into
productivity and find out now featuring
I'm so sorry you must be so tired of
hearing about it AI benchmarks The proon
Benchmark is testing the speed of
inference of various AI models on this
Hardware things like upscaling and
object recognition or generating images
like with stable diffusion like it'll
see pixels and infer that those pixels
form a stop sign and naturally we see
Nvidia dominate here but this isn't just
some architectural failure on amd's part
a big part of it is software Cuda has
been around for a long time now and
basically every AI program is
accelerated by nvidia's Cuda course
whereas AMD is stuck in direct ml hell
in this test and just can't keep up so
we're going to be working to build out
an AI Suite that is more representative
as time goes on of note this is the
first instance where we see an actual
increase in performance from the 4080
refres excuse me 4080 super if AI is a
major part of your workflow then you can
be thankful that you're now getting even
better AI performance for less money at
the very high end similarly in blender
AMD is hamstrung by lacking software
support and we see Nvidia dominate the
rendering race even without taking
advantage of their Optics rendering in
however that uplift that we saw in AI
workloads on the 4080 redu sorry sorry
480 super has all but
evaporated let's talk about how nvidia's
AI horsepower affects gaming now then
with DSS and frame gen as we've seen in
the past an increase in AI cores doesn't
correlate to improved performance from
dlss and frame gen you turn them on and
they work or you don't turn them on and
they don't work you get roughly a 60%
increase in fps from aing dlss with
frame gen regardless of which card
you're using that is assuming it's green
which dramatically increases performance
with what has become a pretty small
difference in visual Fidelity the
increase in latency is measurable but
outside of professional Gamers and
enthusiasts I think it's kind of reached
the point where it's like well why
wouldn't I turn this on as for AMD you
might have noticed that even though they
finally launched their driver level
frame generation we didn't included in
our results we wanted to be as Apples to
Apples as possible and in theory it's
really cool you just turn it on in the
adrenaline control panel and it boosts
your FPS in any directx11 or directx12
game though like with Nvidia they do say
you need decent performance already for
it to work its best with AMD
recommending 60 FPS the problem is that
we were not able to get consistent
outputs such that we would be confident
putting them on our graphs so we've got
some screen capture here for you guys to
give you you some idea of what you might
expect in terms of a performance uplift
but I think it's going to have to wait
for a future video to see how their
fluid motion frames compared to Nvidia
when it comes to image quality and
latency another place speaking of
latency where AMD has legged behind
Nvidia has been Ray tracing which
doesn't change at all the introduction
of these performance bumps and the new
SKS will all but Force AMD to Discount
pretty much their entire current gen
lineup at at least if they want to
appeal to Ray tracing Enthusiast Gamers
post price cut the 4080 now competes
directly with the 7900 XTX with slightly
better raster and much better rage
racing performance alongside other
Nvidia waloff features and the story is
the same when it comes to power
consumption even with the bump to Total
power consumption nvidia's new cards
handily outclass AMD in overall
efficiency and if you were worried that
the power bump would result in thermal
problems maybe on the 480 super for
example you can rest easy knowing that
thermals on all of these cards were very
much in check so you can rest easy and
comfortably in our new collection of
pajamas we have onesies and lounge pants
now available at LTD store.com now is
anyone else getting a sense of deja vu
by now if you are it's probably cuz
you're pretty smart and observing Nvidia
is pulling from the exact same Playbook
as they did with the 20 series seriously
stop me if this sounds familiar you
release a generation of cards that is
perceived as not offering a very good
value and in fact not offering much in
the way of a performance improvement
over the last gen then you do a midcycle
super refresh so that you can say yeah
we know this one was kind of a downer
but we're listening well that may have
been a very long 4 and 1/2 years ago but
I haven't forgotten Nvidia and how is it
that you thought that this was worth
dragging out over a month plus long
series of launch events did anyone else
notice that they gave nothing to The
Gamers who already had the least this
generation what about people who have
less than
$500 to spend on a gaming accessory
Nvidia is basically yielding that
customer to Sony or Microsoft so I hate
to say it but unless Intel Arc battle
mage swoops in to save us
apus might be the future that we have to
look forward to for Budget PC gaming as
for the future of this video it's the
segue to our sponsor ground news no one
likes to admit it but we all kind of
live in our own bubbles thanks in no
small part to internet platforms that
feed us more and more stuff that they
think we'll like including news but
ground news wants to change how we
engage with news by helping us break
free from algorithms see through media
bias and better understand where we get
our information from to do this their
team team processes nearly 60,000 news
articles from over 50,000 different news
sources each day merging coverage of the
same events to give you a clearer
picture of just what the heck is going
on out there every story comes with this
little bar that breaks down the
political leanings of the outlets that
are reporting on it for example here's a
recent story about open AI no longer
Banning the use of chat GPT for military
purposes Outlets from one side of the
spectrum reported on it while it looks
like the other side didn't really find
it that news Y and if you wonder why
ground news can help you dig more into
those Outlets to uh have a look at what
topics they cover which ones they don't
and why that might be it's time we had a
smarter way to read the news so go to
ground. news/ Linus or click the link
below and you'll get 40% off their
unlimited access Vantage plan today if
you guys enjoyed this video why don't
you check out the one I alluded to
earlier where we analyzed the difference
between a dozen different identical AMD
CPUs and showed how they don't always
perform quite the same